---
title: "Launching shaynesidman.com"
pubDate: 2025-08-06
description: "Welcome to my website + end of summer 2025 internship."
---

# Hi everyone! <br>

After several years, I have finally decided to purchase my own domain and deploy the first iteration of my personal portfolio site to it. I have been sitting on this source code since the beginning of the summer, but for some reason never published it to the Internet. But, here it is. <br><br>

## Purpose

Last summer, I had a conversation with my bosses of about the importance of journaling professional progress early on in one's career. We discussed the three hypothetical (though I guess not so hypothetical in practice) ranks of apprentice, journeyman, and master. In general, apprentices have less proof of competency (at least through professional work), so it follows that they should maintain a log of what they have learned. Given that I am still a college student, it seems appropriate that I fall in this category and should therefore follow my bosses' advice. <br><br>

## Website

With the purpose out of the way, I would like to welcome you to my personal website. Whether you are a friend, peer, employer (please be an employer, I need a job), or just browsing, I hope you can find something cool or useful here. I wrote this website in Astro, a JS web framework that specializes in shipping lightweight HTML to the browser to improve performance. <br><br>

On this site, you can find some of the projects that I am working on, some information about me, a way for us to get in contact, and this blog. Let me know if you have any suggestions about additional content that would be interesting to see, any styling advice, or any errors I made that need to be corrected. <br><br>

## End of summer 2025 internship

This summer, I spent my time working at Shepherd Financial Partners, a wealth management firm that specializes in combining asset management with financial planning to help clients achieve both short and long-term goals. I worked with many people on many projects during my time at SFP this summer, but some highlights include a full-stack application that searches for and summarizes market news for clients and improvements made to the company website. This past summer was super fun, as I met some really great people and learned a lot about both finance and computer science. There are certainly a lot of thank you's to be made, in particular to Mark Shepherd for giving me the opportunity to work for his firm and Chris Cogliano for teaching me a ton about finance and working with me to implement the web app that I mentioned. <br><br>

## The rest of summer

With the internship behind me, I am looking forward to working on some really intriguing projects in the weeks before school starts back up. I also have some fun stuff planned for the upcoming semester, including working as a tech lead for a JumboCode group and some other work that is in the early stages right now 😉. When I have some more stuff to mention, I'll update you here.