---
title: "Completed the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner"
pubDate: 2026-01-14
description: "Spent my winter break studying for & taking AWS CCP exam."
---

# Long time no speak! <br>

In early December, as I wrapped up the first semester of my senior year, I thought long and hard about
what I wanted to do with my break. Sure, I'd definitely be looking for jobs, but that wouldn't take up
all my time--right? Indeed, it wouldn't, and so I looked for something else to do.

After speaking with my old boss from my summer 2024 internship, ZB Mastylo, and doing some research on 
the technologies that employers are using, I decided that I would do something with Amazon Web Services. <br><br>

## Motivation & Planning

This decision came down to two key factors. The first was that AWS is the largest CSP, owning ~30% of
cloud infrastructure as of January 2026. This meant that I would be casting the widest net by 
learning to use their services. The second was that a vast majority of the employers for whom I am
interested in working use AWS. So, not only was the net that I was casting wide, but it was tailored to
my (hopeful) future. I also thought that AWS would provide some useful infrastructure to projects that
I have been working on (especially with the free credits they provide).

The next step was figuring out how I wanted to approach studying. Two potential paths that I came up with
included learning specific AWS services that I thought may be applicable and AWS infrastructure & services 
at a high level before diving into specific ones. After researching for a few days, I ultimately decided
to go with the latter because the Certified Cloud Practitioner course did just this, and seemed doable
within the 4-week break from school. <br><br>

## Course Time ‼️

Soon after, I finished my exams and got home from break. That night, I had planned to play COD Zombies
with a friend of mine (one of my favorite pastimes). Unfortunately, my buddy bailed, so I decided to start 
studying for the CCP there and then.

To study, I followed Stephane Maarek's AWS CCP Udemy course, which I bought for roughly $20. In addition
to the course, I engaged directly with AWS services through the Console, CLI, or SDK, as I felt that doing
this would help reinforce my understanding of each service.

The next few weeks were characterized by (mostly) consistent studying of a few hours per day. At the
beginning, I was able to go through course modules and explore the services relatively quickly. But, as
the course continued, I found that my progress slowed due to necessary review of previous content. <br><br>

## Wait, this exam is proctored??

Finally, I felt confident enough to take the exam and scheduled it for the very last day of break (January 13th).
During this process, I found out that the online exam was proctored and also cost $100 🥀. I paid the price and
anxiously awaited exam day.

Luckily, the process went off without a hitch and I found a way to pass. I called my Mom and she told me
she had no idea what I was talking about and questioned why I spent my break studying. Thanks Mom. <br><br>

## Gonna miss this

I'm not actually going to miss this. That being said, I found the content of the exam to be fascinating and
comprehensive. I knew that AWS was huge and offered a ton of services, but to see how configurable each
service was and the different problems that they solve was very interesting.

I was also very pleased with Stephane's course that covers the exam material. I thought that it was
comprehensive enough to be an easy follow but also seems to be constantly updated to accommodate changes
to the tested content. I will say, however, that the time I spent playing around with the AWS services was
just as important as the course to support my understanding of the services. Anyone can follow the course
and pass the exam, but it is what you do with the knowledge obtained from the certifcation that really
matters. <br><br>

## Where to go from here?

That brings me to my final point: what do I plan to do with this and where will I go from here?

Though I guess I am a certified cloud practitioner now, I still have a ton to learn about the services 
that the exam covered. I plan to continue working with them on personal projects to reinforce my
understanding. 

I also plan to begin studying for my Solutions Architect exam in the very near future. I
have heard this exam takes longer to study for (which is why I opted for the CCP given my month-long window
over break), but the content should be slightly more familiar now that I have the Cloud Practitioner under
my belt.

I'd like to think that taking and passing the Certified Cloud Practitioner exam gives a framework for 
individuals to think about relevant AWS services that can be used to solve cloud computing problems. 
However, there is still much for me to learn when it comes to implementing solutions to those problems.
I'll post here when I have more updates in the future with relevant work, whether it be AWS or other projects. <br><br>